# Reward Analysis
## Psychonauts 2
Feature | Rewarding Experience | Firing emotional circuit | Firing logical circuit | Firing physical circuit 
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Themed mind-levels | **Discovery** | **Surprise.** New level themes surprises players with creativity and use this surprise to introduces them to new level mechanic/threats. E.g. the bowling themed level and bowling ball mechanic. Or sensation overload themed PSI King's Sensorium and introduction of panic attack enemy.| **Tools.** Levels like Holli's Mind, or PSI king's Sensorium reward a player with new Psy Abilities and create challenges to utilize them. | **VFX.** There are unique sets of interactive VFXs for each mind. No mind feel the same.
Collectible upgrades | **Growth** | **Joy & Anticipation.** It's a delight to find rank-giving item and realize that now you can buy this cool Psy Ability upgrade you were interested in. | **Survivability**. Collect 2 Half-A-Brains to expand Mental Health pool by one | **VFX & SFX.** Collectibles have shiny VFXs and when Raz picks them up he speaks a voiced line.
The time-out window between phases in boss fights | **Safety** | **Fear.** The boss fights in a game are intense and player must deal with lots of threats at once to get to the next phase of the battle | **Opportunity.** In some battles (e.g. Lady Luctopus, Gluttonous Goats) the window between combat phases is an only opportunity to hurt a boss. | **Timing.** To relax after dealing with lots of twitch challenges of the combat phase the player is rewarded with a no-rush decision window or a cut scene.    
Memory vaults | **Social bounding** | **Sadness.** By destroying memory vaults, player discovers NPC's stories of their emotional traumas and shameful experience . Those sad stories resonate with players, strengthening their emotional bound with fictional characters. | *nan* | **SFX.** When vault is open there is a clicking opening sound  

*Note: couldn't find a good feature with status reward in the game*

## Divinity: Original Sin 2
Feature | Rewarding Experience |  Firing emotional circuit | Firing logical circuit | Firing physical circuit 
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Branching quests structure| **Discovery**  | **Disgust.** The land of Rivelon is wicked, but player can choose to reshape it in their own vision of good. | **Options & Tools.** Depending on the tool and path the player chooses to accomplish quest objective, their experience may differ drastically. E.g. when escaping from the Fort Joy the player might sneak their way out through a creepy torture room or have a fun fight with crocodiles for teleportation gloves and teleport their way out. | **VFX & SFX.** One of the ways to change the direction the quest will take is by exploring environment and interactive objects. Every time when player finds something, that was hidden, the game responses to discovery with appropriate VFX-SFX combination. E.g. when you press a suspicious button on the shrine in Fort Joy, the game screen shakes a little, a cloud of smoke VFX and a sound of shifting stone plays and the hidden hutch appears to be nearby.
Levels, skills, stats and items | **Growth** | **Surprise.** Most of humanoid enemies in the game uses the same spells, that player has access to. So when in a fight an enemy surprises a player with a  new spell with cool VFX or clever combo, it might fire in the player's mind "I want it too" satisfaction circuit. | **Power.** Throughout the game there is always a way to become a little bit stronger, by gaining new level or finding/buying new item. There is a hope that you are not stuck if you fail to beat an enemy, you just not powerful enough yet. | **VFX.** Each spell has its unique animation and VFX sequence. The novelty of power the player gets is tangible. 
Stealth |  **Safety**  | **Fear.** If player is aware about the difficult fight down the road, they might choose to avoid it, by walking stealthy | **Opportunity.** Player can get an advantage in an upcoming battle, by stealthy placing their characters in advantageous positions.| **VFX.** When stealthing, the character's model turns into an object like box or rock. The game communicates to the player in a clear, fun and attention grabbing way a message: "Now they can't see you. Do what you want."         
Co-op mode | **Social Bonding**| **Trust.** Players help each other to achieve a common goal | **Power.** Players can coordinate their actions to create powerful combos. E.g. use elemental synergies like: water + lightning = stun effect, or throw lots of physical armor buffs in one player to let this one player deal a massive damage with Reactive Armor spell. | *nan*
Source points and skills | **Status**  | **Anticipation.** The plot of the game is revolving around dangerous sorcerers and their extra powerful magic. This narrative sets up an expectation in a player, that the more you become proficient with your sorcery skills, the more you have influence on the game world. | **Power.** Lots of powerful source skills are messing with the core combat rules. E.g. break a Source Points economy with Apotheosis skill, which allows to make other source skills free as long as their cost is three Source Points or below. | **VFX.** All mechanics, which regain player's Source Points, go with a recognizable green-blue VFXs. Those colors and effects are really selling the whole dangerous otherworldly mystique of the Source.  


## Civilization VI
Feature | Rewarding Experience |  Firing emotional circuit | Firing logical circuit | Firing physical circuit 
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Map exploration | **Discovery** | **Anticipation.** Search a map for tribal villages and inspiration triggers. | **Options.** Find a resourceful spot for your next city, by exploring the map.| **VFX & SFX.** Tribal villages and natural wonders discovery is accompanied by shining visual and tinkling sound effects. 
Districts | **Growth** | **Anticipation.** Build a new district on this juicy spot in your city with high adjacency bonuses. | **Power.** Accumulate resources faster with district's buildings | **VFX & SFX.** "Lay the foundation" sound and beam of light effect appears when player confirms the place for a new district. 
Walls | **Safety** | **Fear.** The cost of loosing the city (especially capital) is to loose your accumulated power to an enemy.| **Survivability.** Even if you have no army units near the city, you still can shoot enemies from the walls. | **Control.** The city and its military districts gets a ranged attack action.        
Co-op mode | **Social Bonding** | **Trust, Surprise, Fear, Anger, Joy.** Co-op + sandbox strategy + politics = an emergent experiences of diplomatic negotiations, alliances and betrayals | **Tool.** The co-op mode opens a new style of the game, where 2 or more players can coordinate their actions to achieve common goals. E.g. 2 players coordinate their attacks in a war against the 3-rd player/AI civilization. | *nan*
City conquest | **Status**  | **Fear.** Make other player to fear the power spike you get, after you conquered a someones capital and its resources | **Power.** All upgrades and resources of a conquered city are yours.| **VFX & SFX.** A quick animation of attacking city's defenses and sounds of weapon use and battle cries.  
