# Reward Analysis
## Psychonauts 2
TYPE-SOURCE| Emotional | Logical | Physical 
--- | --- | --- | --- 
**Discovery** | **Surprise.** New level themes surprises players and introduces them to new level mechanic/threats. E.g. the bowling themed level and bowling ball mechanic. Or sensation overload themed PSI King level and introduction of panic attack enemy.| **Tools.** Player learns new Psychic Powers and can re-explore previously impassible obstacles. E.g. use the time ball to pass through fast moving fans | **VFX/SFX**. Punching different stuff/NPCs trigers different sound and visual effects
**Growth** | **Anticipation.** The stakes of unraveling the kidnapping of Truman Zanotto and the Maligula mysteries are getting higher in the end of each new mission | **Survivability**. Collect 2 Half-A-Brains to expand Mental Health pool by one| **Timing.** Player learns to influence threats speed (platforms or enemies) with Time Ball ability
**Safety** | **Joy.** The Raz's "Big deal. Everybody's got something like you. We just know how to keep it where it belongs" line completes the Maligula's story arc in a comforting way | **Opportunity.** The boss fight with Judges (Compton's mind) is divided in 3 rounds. In the end of each round the game is waiting for a player to throw the dish at the judges, which creates a rewarding opportunity to draw breath after an intense battle phase. | **VFX.** The in-game death by drowning feels paradoxically rewarding and fun. The water tentacle animation sequence is less a punishment and more a friendly reminder to keep away from water due to Raz's family curse.     
**Social Bonding** | **Sadness.** By destroying memory vaults and completing mental level, player discovers NPC's stories of their emotional traumas. Those sad stories resonate with players, strengthening their emotional bound with fictional characters.| **Tools.** Each new Psy Power in a game is introduced in a context of learning/being remind of it from a friend | **VFX.** The use of Clairvoyance on various NPC's is encouraged by various images of Raz in other creatures mind. It's especially fun to see how Raz's friends and relatives are perceiving him.  
**Status** | **Trust.** The player is rewarded with trust and respect of Raz's friends every time he helps them with their problems (completes quests).| **Power.** On lvl 100 there is an upgrade, that lets you use Psy Powers without cooldown. So basically, the player, who beats lvl 100 is rewarded with an ability to break one of the core rules of the game | **Gameplay.** In the final boss fight with Maligula Raz is rewarded with grandma's powers to defeat an enemy once and for all. Raz turns into a giant form of itself and fights giant Maligula in a sumo like competition. 


## Divinity: Original Sin 2
Feature | Rewarding Experience | Emotional Satisfaction | Logical Satisfaction | Physical Satisfaction 
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Branching quests structure| **Discovery**  | **Disgust.** The world of Rivelon is wicked, but player can choose to reshape it in their own vision of good. | **Options & Tools.** Depending on the tool and path the player chooses to accomplish quest objective, their experience may differ drastically. E.g. when escaping from the Fort Joy the player might sneak their way out through a creepy torture room or have a fun fight with crocodiles for teleportation gloves and teleport their way out. | **VFX & SFX.** One of the ways to change the direction the quest will take is by exploring environment and interactive objects. Every time when player finds something, that was hidden the game responses to discovery with appropriate VFX-SFX combination. E.g. when you press a suspicious button on the shrine in Fort Joy, the game screen shakes a little, a cloud of smoke VFX and a sound of shifting stone plays and the hidden hutch appears to be nearby.
Levels, skills, stats and items | **Growth** | **Surprise.** Most of humanoid enemies in the game uses the same spells, that player has access to. So when in a fight an enemy surprises a player with a  new spell with cool VFX or clever combo, it might fire in the player's mind "I want it too" satisfaction circuit. | **Power.** Throughout the game there is always a way to become a little bit stronger, by gaining new level or finding/buying new item. There is a hope that you are not stuck if you fail to beat an enemy, you just not powerful enough yet. | **VFX.** Each spell has its unique animation and VFX sequence. The novelty of power the player gets is tangible. 
Stealth |  **Safety**  | **Fear.** If player is aware about the difficult fight down the road, they might choose to avoid it, by walking stealthy | **Opportunity.** Player can get an advantage in an upcoming battle, by stealthy placing their characters in advantageous positions.| **VFX.** When stealthing the character's model turns into an object like box or rock. The game communicates to the player in a clear, fun and attention grabbing way a message: "Now they can't see you. Do what you want."         
Co-op mode | **Social Bonding**| **Trust.** Players help each other to achieve a common goal | **Power.** Players can coordinate their actions to create powerful combos. E.g. use elemental synergies like: water + lightning = stun effect, or throw lots of physical armor buffs in one player to let this one player deal a massive damage with Reactive Armor spell. | nan
Source points and skills | **Status**  | **Anticipation.** The plot of the game is revolving around dangerous sorcerers and their extra powerful magic. This narrative sets up an expectation in a player, that the more you become proficient with your sorcery skills, the more you have influence on the game world. | **Power.** Lots of powerful source skills are messing with the core combat rules. E.g. break a Source Points economy with Apotheosis skill, which allows to make other source skills free as long as their cost is three Source Points or below. | **VFX.** All mechanics, which regain player's Source Points, go with a recognizable green-blue VFXs. Those colors and effects are really selling the whole dangerous otherworldly mystique of the Source.  


